README.md, before:

# Build a Social Network from Scratch: JavaScript PHP + MySQL

In this repo you can find the code as I follow the "Build a Social Network from Scratch: JavaScript PHP + MySQL" Udemy course by [Reece Kenney][Reece Kenney].

- you can learn more about the course at [Udemy's course link][udemy link].

## Description:

### Who is the target audience?
- In this course you will use HTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript and JQuery. Although we will use all of these skills, no prior experience with them is needed. Of course, you may pick things up a little faster if you have used them before, but at the start of the course, things are explained in ways that target people who have never used the skill before. Because this course appeals to beginners as well as as experienced users, it may seem a little slow paced at the start especially if you have prior programming experience. Bare with it though because it does pick up. If you are an experienced programmer, you may not learn much about the skills but you may learn how to structure a social media website. Some of the techniques and methods used are not the most efficient way to do things (e.g. we use procedural MySQLI statements), but in my opinion, they are the easiest to teach in a short amount of time and easiest to pick up having never used the skills before. Feel free to swap bits of code with your preferred methods.


## My approach

Used PDO + prepared statements all the way through,

Used `password_hash()` to encrypt the user's password when save them in the DB during the registration and `password_verify()` and `password_needs_rehash()` in the login process.

Used more of the Bootstrap classes and functionality, while combining it with my own css.



[//]: # (These are reference links used in the body of this note and get stripped out when the markdown processor does its job. There is no need to format nicely because it shouldn't be seen. Thanks SO - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4823468/store-comments-in-markdown-syntax)

   [Reece Kenney]: <https://www.udemy.com/user/reecekenney/>
   [udemy link]: <https://www.udemy.com/make-a-social-media-website/>

Commit message:

Messaging system done + some refactoring

README.md, after:

# Build a Social Network from Scratch: JavaScript PHP + MySQL

In this repo you can find the code as I follow the "Build a Social Network from Scratch: JavaScript PHP + MySQL" Udemy course by [Reece Kenney][Reece Kenney].

- you can learn more about the course at [Udemy's course link][udemy link].

## Description:

### Who is the target audience?
- In this course you will use HTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript and JQuery. Although we will use all of these skills, no prior experience with them is needed. Of course, you may pick things up a little faster if you have used them before, but at the start of the course, things are explained in ways that target people who have never used the skill before. Because this course appeals to beginners as well as as experienced users, it may seem a little slow paced at the start especially if you have prior programming experience. Bare with it though because it does pick up. If you are an experienced programmer, you may not learn much about the skills but you may learn how to structure a social media website. Some of the techniques and methods used are not the most efficient way to do things (e.g. we use procedural MySQLI statements), but in my opinion, they are the easiest to teach in a short amount of time and easiest to pick up having never used the skills before. Feel free to swap bits of code with your preferred methods.


## My approach

Used PDO + prepared statements all the way through,

Used `password_hash()` to encrypt the user's password when save them in the DB during the registration and `password_verify()` and `password_needs_rehash()` in the login process.

Used `$newArray = [];` to declare tables instead of `$newArray = array()` and `$someArray[] = $someVar;` instead of `array_push( $someArray, $someVar );`.

Used more of the Bootstrap classes and functionality, while combining it with my own css.



[//]: # (These are reference links used in the body of this note and get stripped out when the markdown processor does its job. There is no need to format nicely because it shouldn't be seen. Thanks SO - http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4823468/store-comments-in-markdown-syntax)

   [Reece Kenney]: <https://www.udemy.com/user/reecekenney/>
   [udemy link]: <https://www.udemy.com/make-a-social-media-website/>
